hey everyone I'm Christina from holistic
vanity and you're joining me for one of
my tub talks and my favorite room in the
house or I primpin crying my skin and my
hair and with the shovel blade who is
actually my stylist but she also does
hair for TV and print and I think that
almost everyone I know it was Caesar
because she's fabulous um and today
she's gonna be talking about some
haircare products that we can make
ourselves and you know me I'm all into
make my own skincare my own masks and
obviously natural ingredients so I want
you to bring in an expert to talk about
hair care so what do we have to do Sean
um today I brought in a couple of
different things I have a shampoo and a
conditioner here and I don't know if you
guys have heard anything about the no
poo method or the curly girl hair
washing method and this is something
that anybody can use you don't have to
have curly hair to use this method um
basically what it is is trying to get
away from commercial store-bought
shampoos and conditioners because
obvious reasons I'm we know we're
careful what kind of chemicals we want
to put on our on our body because the
absorb them affects our skin infects our
liver and and also always purchasing
things over and over again you're buying
all this plastic and injuring it in the
garbage so what can we do to make a
difference and this is a good start so
the shampoo is essentially just baking
soda and water it's about I guess the
proportion you could change depending on
your hair type but I started with about
two tablespoons of baking soda in just a
small bottle of water so it's just under
a cup right and you just give it a
really good shake
your hair in the shower and let like
massage it in let it sit on there for
about a minute and the alkaline of the
baking soda helps to clean your hair
without without using any harsh
detergents or chemicals so you can just
leave it in ferment and then you just
rinse it out sweeps it out yeah and what
I love about it is that almost anyone
can make it like I could go down in my
kitchen right now and just pull up we
can so don't do it absolutely and it's
so cheap like it cost you like 3 cents
or something to wash your hair not
really cost a lot more
the thing about the shampoo that's
really great I find is that it doesn't
have any of these um not water-soluble
silicones or heavy detergents in them
which can be really hard on your skin
and hurt on your body but because it's
so alkaline it's important to use a
rinse after and this rinsed I've made is
just straight apple cider vinegar
there's a little bit of water in here
you just put a little bit a little spray
on your guys and put it onto the ends of
your hair and because it's a city it
will close the cuticle on your hair to
make it shiny and smooth after the
baking soda now is it ok to sit on your
hands but is it ok to put it into your
scalp as well it's totally fine on your
scalp it's just some people find that if
you um put it all over its it's very
conditioning and they'll find that there
here will start to get oily like the
next day they put it all over but it's a
matter of trying it out for yourself to
see what works best if you find that
your hair is too dry after then you use
a little bit more apple cider vinegar if
you feel like your hair is oily leave
the next day then you would use a little
bit more baking soda a little bit more
diluted apple cider vinegar are just not
as much all the way up to your roof and
with this method the great thing is that
you can start to wash your hair less and
less because you don't have the
silicones from the products you can just
watch the start washing your hair or
maybe once a week and will start to go
even less and just try it out and see
how you can go without putting all that
extra
silicones onto your hair then you don't
need to wash it as often and how are
they on color treated hair the baking
soda can
a little bit harsh depending on the
proportion and again so if you have
color treated hair you might want to try
it out with a little bit more diluted
and probably not every day you want to
go every couple of days or maybe once a
week so it's but it's good at least you
can use it and it's like totally CJ yeah
absolutely and it's fun see I had my
husband trying it out the other day and
he like you you think that outside your
vinegar is gonna make your hair smell
like vinegar and maybe you can smell it
a little bit when your hair is wet but
as soon as it's dry it just smells clean
it doesn't have any smell at all okay I
ducked yeah I've used apple cider
vinegar and I find that my hair feels
like silk here but it also has like this
really nice clean feeling without
feeling stretched absolutely you can
always add a little bit of essential
oils or something if you want to have
you like a bit of a fragrance as well
totally so these are both really great
easy to make products but if you want to
get more recommendations and information
for me where can we find you um you can
find me at brennidon bellow studio which
is of Adelaide and John and you can
contact me at Shona sha W and a at
Brennan de Melo comp and we'll put it on
your less than just definite I'm sorry
to post this on holistic manner you
don't home and my youtube channel
holistic vanity and we'll also have some
more videos with different tips and
tricks of the trade with Shona thanks
have a great day